# List Exercises

Work on the following exercises.

## Beginner:
0. [practicing syntax] Create an empty list
1. [practicing syntax] Create another list with 5 numbers of your choosing
2. [practicing loops and appending] Loop over the list containing 5 numbers, and append each number to the first empty list you created.
3. [practicing indexing] Get the 1st element of the list you’ve created above list. Then get the last element. Then get the 4th element.
 

## Intermediate/Advanced
1. Write a Python program that adds all of the numbers in a list and prints out the sum.

For example, if the list is `[5, 5, 12]` your program will print 22.

2. Write a Python program that finds and prints the largest number from a list.

For example, if the list is `[5, 100, 2, 55, 99, 0]` your program will return 100.

3. Write a Python program that scans through a list and and prints ANOTHER list that contains all the words longer than 3 characters.

For example, if the list is `[‘hello’, ‘a’, ‘baby’, ‘he’, ‘Shakespeare’]` your program will print `[‘hello’, ‘baby’, ‘Shakespeare’]`


4. If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9.

Create a list with all the numbers below 1000 that are multiples of either 3 or 5.

5. Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

`1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...`

Write a program that returns a list of all the even Fibonacci numbers below 10000.
 

## Advanced
0. [optional advanced] Learn about [List Comprehension Expressions](http://www.secnetix.de/olli/Python/list_comprehensions.hawk).