# List Exercises

Work on the following exercises.

## Introductory:
Start off doing these exercises to practice lists. 

0. [practicing syntax] Create a variable equal to an empty list
1. [practicing syntax] Create another list that contains 5 numbers of your choosing.
2. Print the length of both lists.
3. [practicing loops and appending] Now use a for-loop that loops over the list containing 5 numbers, and append each number to the first empty list you created. At the end of your for-loop, both lists should now have the same 5 numbers.
4. [practicing indexing] Get the 1st element of the list you’ve created above list and print it. Then get the last element and print it. Then get the 4th element and print it.

If you are stuck on any of these, ask for help or read over the Lists tutorial.

## Intermediate:
1. Write a Python program that adds all of the numbers in a list and prints out the sum.

For example, if the list is `[5, 5, 12]` your program will print 22.

Example code to get you started:

```python
numbers = [5, 5, 100]

total = 0

# YOUR CODE HERE #
# It should add all the numbers in the list #

print(total)
# this now prints 110.

```

2. Write a Python program that scans through a list and and creates another list that contains all the words longer than 3 characters.

For example, if the list is `[‘hello’, ‘a’, ‘baby’, ‘he’, ‘Shakespeare’]` your program will create a list containing `[‘hello’, ‘baby’, ‘Shakespeare’]`.

**HINT:** You can use the `len()` command on strings as well as lists. For example, `len("hello")` will return `5` since there are 5 letters in `"hello"`.

3. Write a Python program that finds and prints the largest number from a list.

For example, if the list is `[5, 100, 2, 55, 99, 0]` your program should print `100`.

**HINT:** You will need to use a loop to go through every element of the list one-by-one, checking to see if it's "the largest".



## Advanced

1. If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9.

Create a list with all the numbers below 1000 that are multiples of either 3 or 5.

2. Write a program that returns a list of all the even Fibonacci numbers below 1000.

(**Note**: Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be: `1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55`)
 
3. Learn about [List Comprehension Expressions](https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/list-comprehension). Solve one of the Intermediate problems 